=pod

=head1 NAME

File::Listing::Ftpcopy - parse directory listing using ftpparse from ftpcopy

=head1 VERSION

version 0.01

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # traditional interface
 use File::Listing::Ftpcopy qw(parse_dir);
 $ENV{LANG} = "C";  # dates in non-English locales not supported
 for (parse_dir(`ls -l`)) {
     ($name, $type, $size, $mtime, $mode) = @$_;
     next if $type ne 'f'; # plain file
     #...
 }

 # directory listing can also be read from a file
 open(LISTING, "zcat ls-lR.gz|");
 $dir = parse_dir(\*LISTING, '+0000');

 # ftpparse interface
 use v5.10;
 use Parse::Listing::Ftpcopy qw( :all );
 
 foreach my $line (`ls -l`)
 {
   chomp $line;
   my $h = ftpparse($line);
   next unless defined $h;
   say "name : $h{name}";
   say "size : $h{size}" if $h{sizetype} != SIZE_UNKNOWN;
 }

=head1 METHODS

=head2 parse_dir( $listing, [ $time_zone, [ $type, [ $error ] ] ] )

The first argument ($listing) is the directory listing to parse.
It can be a scalar, a reference to an array of directory lines or a
glob representing a filehandle to read the directory listing from.

The second argument ($time_zone) is used when parsing the time
stamps in the listing.  If the value is undefined, then the local
time zone is assumed.

The third argument ($type) is ignored, but included herre for compatability
with L<File::Listing>.

The fourth argument ($error) specifies how unparseable lines should
be treated.  Values can be 'ignore', 'warn' or a code reference.
'warn' means that the perl T<warn> function will be called.  If a 
code reference is passed, then this routine will be called and the
return value from it will be incorporated in the listing.  The
default is 'ignore'.

=head2 ftpparse( $line )

Parse a single line from an FTP listing.  Returns a hash ref of
information about the file found in that line, or undef if no
file information was found about the file.

Here is the information found in the hash ref:

=over 4

=item *

name

The name of the file

=item *

size

The size of the file

=item *

sizetype

What format the size refers to, one of

=over 4

=item *

SIZE_UNKNOWN

The size could not be determined (size is set to 0)

=item *

SIZE_BINARY

The size assumes a binary transfer (TYPE I)

=item *

SIZE_ASCII

The size assumes an ASCII transfer (TYPE A)

This is currently unused, but could theoretically be used in the future.

=back

=item *

flagtrycwd

0 if the file is defintely not a directory.  1 otherwise.

=item *

flagtryretr

0 if the file is defintely not a regular file or symlink, which can be retrieved.  1 otherwise.

=item *

symlink

If the file is a symlink, then this contains the target name (or at least part of the target name)
of the symlink.

=item *

format

The detected format of the listing, one of:

=over 4

=item *

FORMAT_UNKNOWN

=item *

FORMAT_EPLF

=item *

FORMAT_MLSX

=item *

FORMAT_LS

=back

=item *

mtime

The modification time as the number of non-leap seconds since
the epoch.

=item *

mtimetype

Information about the mtime field, one of:

=over 4

=item *

MTIME_UNKNOWN 

modification time is undetermined

=item *

MTIME_LOCAL

time is correct for the current time zone

=item *

MTIME_REMOTEMINUTE

Time zone and seconds are unknown

=item *

MTIME_REMOTEDAY

Time zone and time of day are unknown

=item *

MTIME_REMOTESECOND

time zone is unknown

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

L<File::Listing>

=item *

L<http://ohse.de/uwe/ftpcopy/install.html>

=item *

L<http://cr.yp.to/ftpparse.html>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Graham Ollis <plicease@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2013 by Graham Ollis.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The GNU General Public License, Version 2, June 1991

